# FRED-FrUIT
A front-end UI test program for Federal Reserve Economic Data using fredapi in Python

**Summary:** FrUIT provides a fast and easy-to-use, menu-driven UI for an API to a vast amount of economic data, which allows the user to quickly search and cycle through time series, preview what they look like at different times, scales and percentage changes, and then download the data for analysis if it's of further interest. The UI exposes just enough of the API to get at the data without being too cumbersome, so for any particular search only the top-ten items ranked by 'popularity' are displayed, but if the user already knows what they're looking for, just entering the 'series id' will provide the relevant metadata about it. Likewise, to see the data, the user can then immediately view the entire series -- with or without a log scale -- zoom in to a particular time frame, or plot its percentage change over a user-specified period.

**Introduction:** FRED FrUIT is a simple front-end user interface test (FrUIT) program for the Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED) database operated by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. The St. Louis Fed's FRED database -- https://research.stlouisfed.org/fred2/ -- is very comprehensive, but kind of clunky, so I wanted to write a lightweight, menu-driven program to quickly find, view and export economic time series data. FRED has an API -- https://research.stlouisfed.org/docs/api/fred/ -- of which there are a few Python wrappers available. I chose 'fredapi' -- https://github.com/mortada/fredapi -- because it can return data in a pandas DataFrame and I wanted to learn more about the Python Data Analysis Library (pandas) and how to use pandas' DataFrame data structure.

**Requirements:** fredapi (which uses pandas) and an API key from the St. Louis Fed (free) -- https://research.stlouisfed.org/docs/api/api_key.html -- and matplotlib.pyplot to plot charts; I also used the 'time' and 're' (regular expressions) modules from Python's Standard Library.

**Description of the Python program:** When run, FrUIT asks for the user's name, which it keeps in a userlog.txt file, then provides a menu and prompts the user to choose from six options: 1) quit, 2) get/lookup time series, 3) specify dates to look at, 4) plot the series chosen, 5) plot a %chg of the series based on the user's choice of periods, and 6) exports the data to a CSV file. When the user quits, the program provides some basic usage data from the userlog.
